So next, we're going to be talking about Amazon S3,
and Amazon S3 is a core AWS service.
It is the first service that I ever leveraged on AWS,
and chances are if you've leveraged the platform at all,
you have used Amazon S3 at some point.
Now, Amazon S3 at a high level lets you store files as objects inside of buckets.
Now buckets are the unit of organization within S3.
You will create a bucket, it will have a set of settings,
and then any file that you drop in can have those settings applied to it.
Now it provides different storage classes for different use cases,
and we'll dive through those storage classes in just a bit.
It allows you to store data automatically across multiple availability zones,
which gives you durability and resiliency for your data.
Now another great feature of S3 is that it enables you
to have URL access for your files.
So if you want to be able to send a link to someone
else to access a file within S3, assuming the permissions are correct,
you can actually do that.
And it also offers configurable rules for data lifecycle,
so if you want something to expire after a period of time
or go to a different storage class.
Now, it also can serve as a static web host,
and we'll actually be implementing that later within this module.
So next, let's talk about the non‑archival storage classes for S3.
Now as a note here,
we will cover the archival storage classes later within this module.
So first of all, we have S3 Standard, and by default,
if you upload a file to S3, it will have the S3 Standard storage class.
Then, we also have S3 Intelligent‑Tiering,
and this is a special storage class that will allow you to move your
data to a correct storage class based on usage.
And we'll talk more about Intelligent‑Tiering in just a minute.
Then, we have S3 Standard‑Infrequent Access.
So, if you have data that is not frequently accessed,
you can get a lower cost by utilizing this particular storage class.
Now it still has the standard resiliency because it
leverages multiple availability zones,
but we also have S3 One Zone‑Infrequent Access,
and this is for data that is not frequently accessed,
but it is only stored within one availability zone.
So you get a much lower cost point than you do with the other options; however,
you do have less resiliency.
So let's talk about Intelligent‑Tiering.
Now, Intelligent‑Tiering is the only way that you can automatically move
data between different storage classes based on access.
And within this overall storage class,
it has two different classes associated with it.
The first is frequent and the second is infrequent,
so it will move your data back and forth between those two different classes.
It gives you pretty much the same performance as what you get with S3 Standard,
but it can provide a cost savings if you have some data that needs to
be moved between those different storage classes.
Now next, let's talk about the S3 lifecycle policies.
Now this is an approach that allows you to transition, based on
your own custom criteria, the objects in your bucket. Now
transitions in this case can enable objects to move to another
storage class based on time.
Now it's important to note here, you can't move something back and
forth based on usage, that's only available with
Intelligent‑Tiering, but you can do it based on time. And you also
can delete objects with expiration based on age.
So if you want a certain file to only last for 30 days,
for example, you could configure that also using lifecycle policies.
Now policies can also factor in the concept of
versions for an object within the bucket.
So S3 does support versioning of data, and you could say something like,
for example,
delete a version of a file that's not the current version after seven days.
So those are different things that you can configure
utilizing S3 lifecycle policies.
Now one additional concept here for S3, and that is the
concept of S3 Transfer Acceleration.
So this is a feature that enables you to upload
data into your bucket much faster,
and it does it by utilizing the AWS edge locations
as a part of Amazon CloudFront.
So if you need to upload your data in a fast and
efficient way into your S3 buckets, you can consider utilizing S3 Transfer Acceleration.